README.md, before:

# `eksctl` - The official CLI for Amazon EKS

[![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/weaveworks/eksctl/tree/master.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/weaveworks/eksctl/tree/master) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/weaveworks/eksctl/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/weaveworks/eksctl?branch=master) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/weaveworks/eksctl)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/weaveworks/eksctl)

`eksctl` is a simple CLI tool for creating clusters on EKS - Amazon's new managed Kubernetes service for EC2. It is written in Go, and uses CloudFormation.

You can create a cluster in minutes with just one command – **`eksctl create cluster`**!

![Gophers: E, K, S, C, T, & L](logo/eksctl.png)

_Need help? Join [Weave Community Slack][slackjoin]._

## Installation

To download the latest release, run:

```
curl --silent --location "https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl/releases/download/latest_release/eksctl_$(uname -s)_amd64.tar.gz" | tar xz -C /tmp
sudo mv /tmp/eksctl /usr/local/bin
```

Alternatively, macOS users can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh):

```
brew tap weaveworks/tap
brew install weaveworks/tap/eksctl
```

and Windows users can use [chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org):

```
chocolatey install eksctl
```

You will need to have AWS API credentials configured. What works for AWS CLI or any other tools (kops, Terraform etc), should be sufficient. You can use [`~/.aws/credentials` file][awsconfig]
or [environment variables][awsenv]. For more information read [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html).

[awsenv]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html
[awsconfig]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-config-files.html

You will also need [AWS IAM Authenticator for Kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-iam-authenticator) command (either `aws-iam-authenticator` or `aws eks get-token` (available in version 1.16.156 or greater of AWS CLI) in your `PATH`.

## Basic usage

To create a basic cluster, run:

```
eksctl create cluster
```

A cluster will be created with default parameters

- exciting auto-generated name, e.g. "fabulous-mushroom-1527688624"
- 2x `m5.large` nodes (this instance type suits most common use-cases, and is good value for money)
- use official AWS EKS AMI
- `us-west-2` region
- dedicated VPC (check your quotas)
- using static AMI resolver

Once you have created a cluster, you will find that cluster credentials were added in `~/.kube/config`. If you have `kubectl` v1.10.x as well as `aws-iam-authenticator` commands in your PATH, you should be
able to use `kubectl`. You will need to make sure to use the same AWS API credentials for this also. Check [EKS docs][ekskubectl] for instructions. If you installed `eksctl` via Homebrew, you should have all of these dependencies installed already.

[ekskubectl]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/configure-kubectl.html

Example output:

```
$ eksctl create cluster
[ℹ]  using region us-west-2
[ℹ]  setting availability zones to [us-west-2a us-west-2c us-west-2b]
[ℹ]  subnets for us-west-2a - public:192.168.0.0/19 private:192.168.96.0/19
[ℹ]  subnets for us-west-2c - public:192.168.32.0/19 private:192.168.128.0/19
[ℹ]  subnets for us-west-2b - public:192.168.64.0/19 private:192.168.160.0/19
[ℹ]  nodegroup "ng-98b3b83a" will use "ami-05ecac759c81e0b0c" [AmazonLinux2/1.11]
[ℹ]  creating EKS cluster "floral-unicorn-1540567338" in "us-west-2" region
[ℹ]  will create 2 separate CloudFormation stacks for cluster itself and the initial nodegroup
[ℹ]  if you encounter any issues, check CloudFormation console or try 'eksctl utils describe-stacks --region=us-west-2 --name=floral-unicorn-1540567338'
[ℹ]  2 sequential tasks: { create cluster control plane "floral-unicorn-1540567338", create nodegroup "ng-98b3b83a" }
[ℹ]  building cluster stack "eksctl-floral-unicorn-1540567338-cluster"
[ℹ]  deploying stack "eksctl-floral-unicorn-1540567338-cluster"
[ℹ]  building nodegroup stack "eksctl-floral-unicorn-1540567338-nodegroup-ng-98b3b83a"
[ℹ]  --nodes-min=2 was set automatically for nodegroup ng-98b3b83a
[ℹ]  --nodes-max=2 was set automatically for nodegroup ng-98b3b83a
[ℹ]  deploying stack "eksctl-floral-unicorn-1540567338-nodegroup-ng-98b3b83a"
[✔]  all EKS cluster resource for "floral-unicorn-1540567338" had been created
[✔]  saved kubeconfig as "~/.kube/config"
[ℹ]  adding role "arn:aws:iam::376248598259:role/eksctl-ridiculous-sculpture-15547-NodeInstanceRole-1F3IHNVD03Z74" to auth ConfigMap
[ℹ]  nodegroup "ng-98b3b83a" has 1 node(s)
[ℹ]  node "ip-192-168-64-220.us-west-2.compute.internal" is not ready
[ℹ]  waiting for at least 2 node(s) to become ready in "ng-98b3b83a"
[ℹ]  nodegroup "ng-98b3b83a" has 2 node(s)
[ℹ]  node "ip-192-168-64-220.us-west-2.compute.internal" is ready
[ℹ]  node "ip-192-168-8-135.us-west-2.compute.internal" is ready
[ℹ]  kubectl command should work with "~/.kube/config", try 'kubectl get nodes'
[✔]  EKS cluster "floral-unicorn-1540567338" in "us-west-2" region is ready
$
```

Install `eksctl` following the [installation instructions](https://eksctl.io/introduction/installation).

To learn more abut what `eksctl` can do check [eksctl.io](https://eksctl.io). A good place to start is
[Getting Started](https://eksctl.io/introduction/getting-started/). The full list of features can be found
[here](https://eksctl.io/introduction/features/).

## Contributions

Code contributions are very welcome. If you are interested in helping make `eksctl` great then see our [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Releases

Minor releases of `eksctl` should be expected every two weeks and patch releases will be made available as needed.

One or more release candidate(s) (RC) builds will be made available prior to each minor release. RC builds are intended only for testing purposes.

## Get in touch

[Create an issue](https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl/issues/new), or login to [Weave Community Slack (#eksctl)][slackchan] ([signup][slackjoin]).

[slackjoin]: https://slack.weave.works/
[slackchan]: https://weave-community.slack.com/messages/CAYBZBWGL/

> **_Logo Credits_**
>
> _Original Gophers drawn by [Ashley McNamara](https://twitter.com/ashleymcnamara), unique E, K, S, C, T & L Gopher identities had been produced with [Gopherize.me](https://gopherize.me/)._

Commit message:

document eksctl-dev mailing list

README.md, after:

# `eksctl` - The official CLI for Amazon EKS

[![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/weaveworks/eksctl/tree/master.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/weaveworks/eksctl/tree/master) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/weaveworks/eksctl/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/weaveworks/eksctl?branch=master) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/weaveworks/eksctl)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/weaveworks/eksctl)

`eksctl` is a simple CLI tool for creating clusters on EKS - Amazon's new managed Kubernetes service for EC2. It is written in Go, and uses CloudFormation.

You can create a cluster in minutes with just one command – **`eksctl create cluster`**!

![Gophers: E, K, S, C, T, & L](logo/eksctl.png)

_Need help? Join [Weave Community Slack][slackjoin]._

## Installation

To download the latest release, run:

```
curl --silent --location "https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl/releases/download/latest_release/eksctl_$(uname -s)_amd64.tar.gz" | tar xz -C /tmp
sudo mv /tmp/eksctl /usr/local/bin
```

Alternatively, macOS users can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh):

```
brew tap weaveworks/tap
brew install weaveworks/tap/eksctl
```

and Windows users can use [chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org):

```
chocolatey install eksctl
```

You will need to have AWS API credentials configured. What works for AWS CLI or any other tools (kops, Terraform etc), should be sufficient. You can use [`~/.aws/credentials` file][awsconfig]
or [environment variables][awsenv]. For more information read [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html).

[awsenv]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html
[awsconfig]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-config-files.html

You will also need [AWS IAM Authenticator for Kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-iam-authenticator) command (either `aws-iam-authenticator` or `aws eks get-token` (available in version 1.16.156 or greater of AWS CLI) in your `PATH`.

## Basic usage

To create a basic cluster, run:

```
eksctl create cluster
```

A cluster will be created with default parameters

- exciting auto-generated name, e.g. "fabulous-mushroom-1527688624"
- 2x `m5.large` nodes (this instance type suits most common use-cases, and is good value for money)
- use official AWS EKS AMI
- `us-west-2` region
- dedicated VPC (check your quotas)
- using static AMI resolver

Once you have created a cluster, you will find that cluster credentials were added in `~/.kube/config`. If you have `kubectl` v1.10.x as well as `aws-iam-authenticator` commands in your PATH, you should be
able to use `kubectl`. You will need to make sure to use the same AWS API credentials for this also. Check [EKS docs][ekskubectl] for instructions. If you installed `eksctl` via Homebrew, you should have all of these dependencies installed already.

[ekskubectl]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/configure-kubectl.html

Example output:

```
$ eksctl create cluster
[ℹ]  using region us-west-2
[ℹ]  setting availability zones to [us-west-2a us-west-2c us-west-2b]
[ℹ]  subnets for us-west-2a - public:192.168.0.0/19 private:192.168.96.0/19
[ℹ]  subnets for us-west-2c - public:192.168.32.0/19 private:192.168.128.0/19
[ℹ]  subnets for us-west-2b - public:192.168.64.0/19 private:192.168.160.0/19
[ℹ]  nodegroup "ng-98b3b83a" will use "ami-05ecac759c81e0b0c" [AmazonLinux2/1.11]
[ℹ]  creating EKS cluster "floral-unicorn-1540567338" in "us-west-2" region
[ℹ]  will create 2 separate CloudFormation stacks for cluster itself and the initial nodegroup
[ℹ]  if you encounter any issues, check CloudFormation console or try 'eksctl utils describe-stacks --region=us-west-2 --name=floral-unicorn-1540567338'
[ℹ]  2 sequential tasks: { create cluster control plane "floral-unicorn-1540567338", create nodegroup "ng-98b3b83a" }
[ℹ]  building cluster stack "eksctl-floral-unicorn-1540567338-cluster"
[ℹ]  deploying stack "eksctl-floral-unicorn-1540567338-cluster"
[ℹ]  building nodegroup stack "eksctl-floral-unicorn-1540567338-nodegroup-ng-98b3b83a"
[ℹ]  --nodes-min=2 was set automatically for nodegroup ng-98b3b83a
[ℹ]  --nodes-max=2 was set automatically for nodegroup ng-98b3b83a
[ℹ]  deploying stack "eksctl-floral-unicorn-1540567338-nodegroup-ng-98b3b83a"
[✔]  all EKS cluster resource for "floral-unicorn-1540567338" had been created
[✔]  saved kubeconfig as "~/.kube/config"
[ℹ]  adding role "arn:aws:iam::376248598259:role/eksctl-ridiculous-sculpture-15547-NodeInstanceRole-1F3IHNVD03Z74" to auth ConfigMap
[ℹ]  nodegroup "ng-98b3b83a" has 1 node(s)
[ℹ]  node "ip-192-168-64-220.us-west-2.compute.internal" is not ready
[ℹ]  waiting for at least 2 node(s) to become ready in "ng-98b3b83a"
[ℹ]  nodegroup "ng-98b3b83a" has 2 node(s)
[ℹ]  node "ip-192-168-64-220.us-west-2.compute.internal" is ready
[ℹ]  node "ip-192-168-8-135.us-west-2.compute.internal" is ready
[ℹ]  kubectl command should work with "~/.kube/config", try 'kubectl get nodes'
[✔]  EKS cluster "floral-unicorn-1540567338" in "us-west-2" region is ready
$
```

Install `eksctl` following the [installation instructions](https://eksctl.io/introduction/installation).

To learn more abut what `eksctl` can do check [eksctl.io](https://eksctl.io). A good place to start is
[Getting Started](https://eksctl.io/introduction/getting-started/). The full list of features can be found
[here](https://eksctl.io/introduction/features/).

## Contributions

Code contributions are very welcome. If you are interested in helping make `eksctl` great then see our [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).
Or join the discussion on our [mailing list](maillist).

## Releases

Minor releases of `eksctl` should be expected every two weeks and patch releases will be made available as needed.

One or more release candidate(s) (RC) builds will be made available prior to each minor release. RC builds are intended only for testing purposes.

## Get in touch

[Create an issue](https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl/issues/new), or login to [Weave Community Slack (#eksctl)][slackchan] ([signup][slackjoin]).

[slackjoin]: https://slack.weave.works/
[slackchan]: https://weave-community.slack.com/messages/eksctl/
[maillist]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/eksctl-dev

> **_Logo Credits_**
>
> _Original Gophers drawn by [Ashley McNamara](https://twitter.com/ashleymcnamara), unique E, K, S, C, T & L Gopher identities had been produced with [Gopherize.me](https://gopherize.me/)._
